Turning to the K-Centroids method for
clustering, we will recall that
with this method, we have to actually
specify the number of clusters we want.
So before we actually run a clustering
process that assigns objects to
specific clusters,
we need to consider how many clusters
will provide the best cluster solution.
This really starts us down
the road of cluster validation.
Cluster validation involves
the testing of a cluster solution
to see just how good it is.
You can validate clusters either
internally or externally.
Internal validation refers to using
the data used to create the clusters
to calculate an index.
External validation refers to
the use of external data, or
data outside the dataset that
was used to create the clusters.
For now,
we will focus on internal validation.
We will go through an exercise on
external validation later in the lesson.
With internal validation,
it is typically best to
evaluate results of the clustering
process that have been completed for
a range of possible number of clusters.
And compare the results for
each cluster solution, using an index
that is based on the data itself.
Now if you'll recall
from an earlier lesson,
the two objectives behind clustering
are one, to create segments of objects
where the objects within each segment
are as close to each other as possible.
This is sometimes called compactness.
And two, the actual segments himself are
far away from each other as possible.
This is often called separateness or
distinctness.
Many indices used to measure the best
number of clusters utilize both
of this aspects, but they may
approach them in different ways.
Now there are a number of indices
related to evaluating clusters that you
can read about in
the instructor's notes.
Each software package typically
will provide calculations for
a certain set of indices.
In this class, we will be looking
at two off the common indices used
that are available within Alteryx.
These two have been in use in statistics
for some time and have been accepted for
their validation aspects.
They are the Adjusted Rand Index and
the Calinski-Harabasz Index,
which for obvious reasons,
I'm going to refer to as the CH Index.
The Adjusted Rand Index is used to
measure how similar the objects within
the cluster are.
We call this cluster stability.
The CH index is used to measure
both the compactness, and
the distinctness, or
separation of the clusters themselves.
For both indices, the objective is
to choose the number of clusters for
an analysis where the calculated
index is at its highest point.